README.md, before:

# Jira Agile Block

### Why use the Looker Jira Agile Block?
**(1) Rapid Time To Value** - gain insights from your Jira data in hours, not weeks. The Jira Block includes pre-built dashboards and content focusing on the Agile methodology, with analysis around Projects, Versions, Springs, and Issues. Additionally, this Data is organized to mask many of the complexities of Jira.

**(2) Centralized Place for Analysis** -  No Jira access required to do self-service reporting. Plus, you can combine your Jira data with other data in your warehouse (e.g. Bitbucket or Github commits) for end-to-end analysis.

**(3) Enterprise Data Platform** - Project Managers and Scrum Masters can easily build their own dashboards, and any user is equipped to ask and answer their own questions, save and share their own reports. Additionally, you can take advantage of Looker's advanced scheduling functionality to get Alerts whenever workflows are disrupted.


### Jira Data Structure and Schema

Looker’s Jira Agile Block is designed to work with the Fivetran Jira schema.  Fivetran has abstracted away many of the complexities of the Jira data model to make it easier for reporting purposes.  Because the Jira schema is very customizable and is different for every implementation, rather than attempting to replicate the exact structure of the Jira schema, Fivetran stores the data in more compact format, with Issues as the central focus.

The Fivetran schema for Jira data can be found [here](https://www.fivetran.com/docs/applications/jira).


Understanding the Fivetran implementation of the Jira data model is important for understanding the LookML model and how you will enhance it based on your own customized version of Jira.  In a typical implementation, the majority of the customizations will be related to the `issue` table, so most of the following discussion will focus on the `issue` table.

#### The `issue` table is comprised of three primary types of fields:

* **1. A standard text field** -  A standard text field appears on the Jira UI as a text box that you can type a value into.  There are some more sophisticated ways of doing this in Jira, such as a Date Picker field, but the result is still a single value. When the data is stored in the database, the actual value that you entered is stored as a field in the `issue` table.

* **2. A Single Value Select Field** -  A Single Value Select Field allows you to choose one value from a pre-defined list of values.  This may be from a dropdown list in the UI, or a set of radio buttons.  When the data is stored in the database, rather than storing the value that you chose, a numeric id is stored in the `issue` table.  The text value associated with this id is found in another table.  In most cases, the id will be found in the table `field_option` which contains the id and associated value for most custom Select fields.  There are some exceptions.  If the Select field is referencing an entity that has its own dimension table, then the id would be found in the corresponding dimension table.  For example, if you selected the `Issue Status` from a drop-down list, the id stored in the `issue` table would correspond to an id in the `status` table.

* **3.  A Multi Value Select Field** -  A Multi Value Select Field allows you to choose one or more values from a pre-defined list of values.  This may be from a dropdown list in the UI or a set of checkboxes.  When the data is stored in the database, the id associated with the selection is stored in the database similar to how it is described in the Single Value Select Field.  However, instead of being stored in the `issue` table, the id(s) will be stored in a standalone table that follows the naming convention `issue_[field_name]`.  For example, if you had added a new Multi Value Select Field to the `issue` table called `Browsers Supported`, and provided a list of possible values that a user could choose from, the ids associated with those selections would be stored in a table named `issue_browsers_supported` along with the associated issue id, and the value associated with the browser supported id would be found in the `field_option` table.  Every Multi Value Select Field associated with the issue will have its own standalone table.

#### History tables

* Fivetran also provides history tables that store the change history of each field in the issue table, including multi value select fields.  Each field will have a separate history table associated with it which follows the naming convention `issue_[field_name]_history`.  These tables store the issue id, the previous value of the field and the date of the change.

* It is worth noting that Fivetran will not create a table until you insert data in the corresponding table in Jira.  For example, until you modify the status of any issue at least once, your schema will not contain an `issue_status_history` table.  For Jira installations that have been in use for a while, the only tables that won't be part of your initial Fivetran schema would be related to new custom fields that you add.  For newer installations, it's possible that there will be new history tables added periodically as fields are updated for the first time, as well as new tables associated with new custom fields.  These tables will need to be added manually to your LookML Model.

### Jira Block Structure

The `issue` table is highly customizable.  Administrators can add any additional fields necessary for capturing the data that makes tracking and reporting more effective.  These additional fields can be either Single Select Fields or Multi-Select Fields.  As the names imply, a Single Select Field can only contain one value, and a Multi-Select field can contain several values.  Single Select issue fields are stored in the `issue` table.  Multi-Select fields are stored in separate tables.  For example, an issue may affect several customers, so it is represented by a multi-select field in the Jira UI, and stored in a separate table in the Fivetran Jira schema named `issue_customer_impacted`.

Commit message:

Readme updated to reflect refinement update

README.md, after:

# Jira Agile Block

### Why use the Looker Jira Agile Block?
**(1) Rapid Time To Value** - gain insights from your Jira data in hours, not weeks. The Jira Block includes pre-built dashboards and content focusing on the Agile methodology, with analysis around Projects, Versions, Springs, and Issues. Additionally, this Data is organized to mask many of the complexities of Jira.

**(2) Centralized Place for Analysis** -  No Jira access required to do self-service reporting. Plus, you can combine your Jira data with other data in your warehouse (e.g. Bitbucket or Github commits) for end-to-end analysis.

**(3) Enterprise Data Platform** - Project Managers and Scrum Masters can easily build their own dashboards, and any user is equipped to ask and answer their own questions, save and share their own reports. Additionally, you can take advantage of Looker's advanced scheduling functionality to get Alerts whenever workflows are disrupted.


### Jira Data Structure and Schema

Looker’s Jira Agile Block is designed to work with the Fivetran Jira schema.  Fivetran has abstracted away many of the complexities of the Jira data model to make it easier for reporting purposes.  Because the Jira schema is very customizable and is different for every implementation, rather than attempting to replicate the exact structure of the Jira schema, Fivetran stores the data in more compact format, with Issues as the central focus.

The Fivetran schema for Jira data can be found [here](https://www.fivetran.com/docs/applications/jira).


Understanding the Fivetran implementation of the Jira data model is important for understanding the LookML model and how you will enhance it based on your own customized version of Jira.  In a typical implementation, the majority of the customizations will be related to the `issue` table, so most of the following discussion will focus on the `issue` table.

#### The `issue` table is comprised of three primary types of fields:

* **1. A standard text field** -  A standard text field appears on the Jira UI as a text box that you can type a value into.  There are some more sophisticated ways of doing this in Jira, such as a Date Picker field, but the result is still a single value. When the data is stored in the database, the actual value that you entered is stored as a field in the `issue` table.

* **2. A Single Value Select Field** -  A Single Value Select Field allows you to choose one value from a pre-defined list of values.  This may be from a dropdown list in the UI, or a set of radio buttons.  When the data is stored in the database, rather than storing the value that you chose, a numeric id is stored in the `issue` table.  The text value associated with this id is found in another table.  In most cases, the id will be found in the table `field_option` which contains the id and associated value for most custom Select fields.  There are some exceptions.  If the Select field is referencing an entity that has its own dimension table, then the id would be found in the corresponding dimension table.  For example, if you selected the `Issue Status` from a drop-down list, the id stored in the `issue` table would correspond to an id in the `status` table.

* **3.  A Multi Value Select Field** -  A Multi Value Select Field allows you to choose one or more values from a pre-defined list of values.  This may be from a dropdown list in the UI or a set of checkboxes.  When the data is stored in the database, the id associated with the selection is stored in the database similar to how it is described in the Single Value Select Field.  However, instead of being stored in the `issue` table, the id(s) will be stored in a standalone table that follows the naming convention `issue_[field_name]`.  For example, if you had added a new Multi Value Select Field to the `issue` table called `Browsers Supported`, and provided a list of possible values that a user could choose from, the ids associated with those selections would be stored in a table named `issue_browsers_supported` along with the associated issue id, and the value associated with the browser supported id would be found in the `field_option` table.  Every Multi Value Select Field associated with the issue will have its own standalone table.

#### History tables

* Fivetran also provides history tables that store the change history of each field in the issue table, including multi value select fields.  Each field will have a separate history table associated with it which follows the naming convention `issue_[field_name]_history`.  These tables store the issue id, the previous value of the field and the date of the change.

* It is worth noting that Fivetran will not create a table until you insert data in the corresponding table in Jira.  For example, until you modify the status of any issue at least once, your schema will not contain an `issue_status_history` table.  For Jira installations that have been in use for a while, the only tables that won't be part of your initial Fivetran schema would be related to new custom fields that you add.  For newer installations, it's possible that there will be new history tables added periodically as fields are updated for the first time, as well as new tables associated with new custom fields.  These tables will need to be added manually to your LookML Model.

### Jira Block Structure
This block utilizes Refinement files for customization.
For more information on using refinements to customize marketplace blocks, please see [this documentation](https://docs.looker.com/data-modeling/marketplace/customize-blocks).

The `issue` view is highly customizable. Through refinements, administrators can add any additional fields necessary for capturing the data that makes tracking and reporting more effective.  These additional fields can be either Single Select Fields or Multi-Select Fields.  As the names imply, a Single Select Field can only contain one value, and a Multi-Select field can contain several values.  Single Select issue fields are stored in the `issue` table.  Multi-Select fields are stored in separate tables.  For example, an issue may affect several customers, so it is represented by a multi-select field in the Jira UI, and stored in a separate table in the Fivetran Jira schema named `issue_customer_impacted`.
